# My-Data-Science-Portfolio

Welcome to my portfolio of data science projects, which I have completed for academic, self-learning, and hobby purposes. This repository showcases my skills and knowledge in data analysis, machine learning, and statistical modeling.

**Text Mining and Classification**
---

[Detecting AI Generated Text](https://github.com/manasisuryavanshi99/detect_ai_generated_text) - This project aims to detect AI-generated text using a combination of techniques, including BERT embeddings, linguistic features, and vector similarity. The goal is to accurately identify text that has been generated by AI models, such as GPT-3, and distinguish it from human-written content.<br>
**Dataset:** For Human written text- TOEFL essays with character limit and For AI text - Prompts of the same TOEFL essays were given to various AI chatbots.<br>
**Models explored:** Both classification and regression models were explored<br>

**Time Series Forecasting**
---

[Residual Energy Forecasting](https://github.com/manasisuryavanshi99/Energy-Forecasting): A multivariate time series analysis for predicting residual loads, which is crucial for maintaining a stable energy supply. The complexities arise due to weather-dependent generation, making accurate forecasts essential for proper supply operations. <br>
**Dataset:** Part of a [Kaggle competition](https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/energy-forecasting-data-challenge) <br>
**Models explored:** ARIMA, VAR(Vector Autoregression) and Facebook Prophet <br>

**Predictive Modeling**
---

[Predict CD enrollment for Truist Bank](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1-9GRuvdmXsJkQzOo9zfhsOLVzeKPQw7X/view):A ML model to predict CD (Certificate of Deposit) Enrollments in the Bank Data for a Year. Used Tableau and Python Jupyter Notebook for EDA of the dataset. Conducted Data Imputation and Cleaning for Model feed. Using 5 fold cross validation on Ensemble model, Gradient Boosting gave the highest accuracy of 85%. Presented it as one of the top 3 teams from UNC Charlotte.
